- What are communities
- Newman Girvan algorithm
- Modularity
- Node clustering with probabilistic mixture model

Notebook 4


This self study was about community detection or **graph clustering**. First of all when performing network clustering, it is a task of extracting the natrural community structure from netowrks of vertices and edges. Informally, a community in a network is a group of nodes with greater ties internally than to the rest of the network.

A dataset of a social network of lawyers with a friendship relation is used. Here we have an undriect graph showing the lawyers with edges to their friends. The color here represtens the office attribute.


In the first task we use the **Girvan-Newman algorthm** to divide the network into communities.
Thew girvan Newman algorithm is a method to find these communities in a network. It works by first calculating the edge betweenes score for each edge in the network. The edge betweenness is the amount of shortest paths passing through the edge. Then it findes the one with the highest score and removes it. If there is a tie, one is choosen at random. Now the edge betweenness is recalculated and the steps are repeated.

We calculate a modularity score to see good the communities are. Modularity is a measure of the structure of a graph, measuring the density of connections within a module or community. Graphs with a high modularity score will have many connections within a community but only few pointing outwards to other communities.

Here we see the modularity scores for the communites defineed by the Girvan-Newman algorithm 
k = 2: 0.0049
k = 3: 0.0049
k = 4: 0.071
k = 5: 0.073

They are all pretty bad. Which is shownn by computing the modularity score from the predined attributes, where we see that status and office have the highest score of 
Status          | k = 2: 0.255
Office          | k = 3: 0.197


We can also see that they suggest 2 and 3 communites, whereas the Girvan-Newman algorithm found 5.

In task 2 we calculate the **log-likelihood** based on a **Gaussian mixture model**. 
Now ill quickly cover what a **Gaussian Mixture Model** is. 
A mixture model is essentially used when we want a model to account for multiple different distributions. The mixture model is constructed using mixture components that each represents a distribution in the mixture model. A gaussian mixture model is a mixture model that is constructed using gaussian distributions as mixture components.  

When applying Gaussian Mixture Models, in can be done using the **Expectation Maximization algorithm**. Using this algorithm, we start with a random guess for what the clusters are going to be, and then proceed to improve iteratively by alternating two steps:

1. Expectation: Assign each datapoint to a cluster probabilistically, meaning, the distance to the clusters.
2. Maximization: Update the parameters for the clusters (weighted mean location and variance-covariance matrix) based on the points in the cluster (weighted by their probability assigned in the first set)



For **log-likelihood** the higher the value the better. Again the highest value we get is with 5 communites as with the Girvan-Newman algorithm.
